We just discussed how to use UML to model our solution which
gave us a clear understanding of what we need to build and for whom.
Using this information, we'll cover questions
to ask when choosing the appropriate services.
Now, earlier you saw new layers of services are added onto Web
2.0 in order to make use of Web 3.0 services such as wallets,
blockchain services, and in some cases, the IPFS services.
So in the remainder of this lesson,
we'll walk you through the thought process to help you narrow
down your choices when choosing the right tool for each service.
Now, these are the same questions that you'll need to consider when working as
a blockchain developer no matter what scale of application that you're building.
For the following discussion,
let's assume we're going to grow way beyond
our two actor pet example. So start thinking big.
In this scenario, you're part of a blockchain developer team tasked to
build a blockchain solution for a prominent wine producer, Vindacity.
They take their wines very seriously and so do their consumers
who want to know the origins and authenticity of the products they buy.
It was also recently reported that on average,
consumers paid about a 25 percent premium
for fair trade labeled wines versus unlabeled wines,
if they want the consumers to be confident in their labels.
Vindacity is a middle-sized business who have about hundred actors involved in
their system and expected grow to handle
about a thousand transactions per second per year.
You'll need to make decisions about the platform,
database, and the supporting frameworks and supporting libraries.
Now, the platform and database will be our biggest decisions since
the frameworks and libraries will be decided on as
a result of the decisions of our first two choices.
Let's look at the platform decisions.
The core metrics that will help us narrow down on the platforms will be network,
performance, business logic, and consensus. First, network.
What's scale are we expecting,
and how many participants do we expect to interact within the solution?
Will it be hundreds of thousands of users or just a small handful?
Also, do we want or need to know the participants in the network?
Or can we trust them without knowing everything about them?
In our case, we expect at most about a hundred active users on the network at a time.
We also expect them to be able to
participate without knowing everything about each other.
Now, what about the performance of the network?
So for this, we need to consider how many transactions we're anticipating per second,
and how much data per transaction do we expect.
We can use existing metrics to conclude average shipment orders to be executed.
We should also consider the transactional throughput,
meaning the amount of transactions that can be executed at a given time.
Now there are two sides of interacting with data.
There's the creation and modification of the data,
and then the querying of that data.
In a supply chain use case,
most of our application interactions will be on the querying side.
The creation of the data is restricted to
the producer who creates goods for the marketplace.
Next, let's look at the business logic.
So here we'll assume the business logic is kept simple.
Meaning will be a stand-alone solution.
Also, the privacy of the transaction is not
important feature and the data should be public since we want
our consumers and other actors in the supply chain to be able to
track the product details and reassure them of its authenticity.
Lastly, let's consider the type of consensus required.
Will we need an arbitrator in the event of a dispute?
In the case of our example, we'll not.
But say our blockchain were tracking legal deeds passed amongst landowners,
then in that case, that would be a strong consideration.
Next, we want all participants to be involved in the validation of transactions.
For the sake of simplicity in assumptions,
we want strict immutability of the records with no need to amend or cancel transactions.
Now with decisions about what we need from the platform discussed,
let's look at our database storage needs.
First, what data are we storing?
We need to store data about the transactions,
as well as the fields about the wine to prove authenticity such as the origin,
the producer, and the bottling date.
Now for the premise of our supply chain,
data's collected in a transactional manner solely on the blockchain platform.
There's no need for the data to be stored in a separate database for now since we'll
only focus on the validation of product authenticity using a public blockchain.
Given that, we need to determine the chain's visibility meaning,
will it be public or private?
If the number of transactions needed are relatively
low and there's no need for private data,
we can utilize a publicly visible chain.
Now with all these decisions concluded,
we decided to select a Ethereum as
a platform of choice for this product as it suits our needs.
Now there are a number of possible contenders such as Neo,
Hyper ledger or CoData.
We highly advise you to follow
a similar thought process when deciding on a platform and database.
With the platform chosen,
we can look into the frameworks that support the platform.
So Truffle and Ganache are popular ones that you should be familiar with already.
Choosing a framework depends on the language
the software application solution is being developed with.
For instance, knowing that our target is to
develop an interface for the front end with JavaScript,
we can utilize the Truffle framework.
Once a framework is decided,
the libraries chosen should be compatible.
Choosing the libraries depends on choosing the service type.
So whether that's back-end or front-end,
as well as, the language being used for that development.
As we covered in the previous term,
make sure the libraries are well-maintained and community vetted.
Now that wraps it up for this section on making decisions on service layers.
Remember to consider these core components;
the network, performance, business logic,
consensus, and data storage concerns when making decisions
about new layers of service no matter what scale of application you're building.